[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of neon
newday.com I'm your host Dylan Grabowski
in this episode of the smart economy
podcast we were joined by Rebecca Lao
the co-founder and CEO of saga a
protocol that allows developers to spin
up an L1 as easily as they can launch a
smart contract in this episode we
discussed the current sentiment of the
blockchain space and why we was buil to
attract new users crypto and
blockchain's position and the US's
political realm the benefits of
launching a native blockchain on a per
project basis why Saga decided to
specifically focus on the gaming and
entertainment verticals how well three
gaming has evolved over the past 3 years
the value that a gas-free chain can
bring to its Builders and users and so
much more just a reminder nothing said
on this podcast is a solicitation to buy
or sell any tokens and that the guest or
host May hold tokens discussed in any
given episode you can check out a
disclaimer on
www.newsday.com and if you enjoyed
listening to this episode please don't
hesitate to rate and review it on your
favorite podcast casting platform and to
share this with friends and family every
rate review like comment you name it
really helps us get this podcast in
front of more people's eyes and ears and
to get more of your favorite guests in
front of those eyes and ears as well so
with all that said I really enjoyed
speaking with Rebecca and I hope you
enjoy the conversation too today we're
joined by Rebecca La the co-founder and
CEO of saga a layer one that allows
developers to spin up parallelized and
interoperable blockchain networks how
you doing today Rebecca I'm good Dylan
how are you thanks for having me I'm
doing great um before we hit the record
button I mentioned how uh fun it was
digging into your background and sort of
the things you're working on um but to
just kind of before we like get to know
who are you why are you here I do just
kind of want to give our listeners like
a sense of um the significance of what
Saga is and so from a highle perspective
can you just share what it's uh
cumbersome for a brand new developer
who's new to blockchain to either spin
up their own chain or build on an
existing layer one like ethereum or
salana or near and what are these chain
lits that Saga creat creates and how
does it address this demand of
difficulty for for building on chain
yeah Dylan all great questions and so I
I will answer all of them in turn and
then by the time I'm done we will have
taken a tour throughout all of saga uh
but Saga is as you mentioned a layer one
um and uh you a great deal of technical
features that you mentioned after that
so thank you for that but the Shand is
really we layer one to launch layer ones
and I think that will immediately help
developers to understand what our value
proposition is um so you mentioned
ethereum salana near and these other
storyed layer ones so these are all
single layer ones and when a developer
deploys their application onto these
layer ones um they are sharing block
space they're sharing that layer one
with all the other applications on there
and what that has led to as we have seen
as enormous congestion um when there is
any sort of appreciable user traffic uh
it also means that gas fees um which are
just a part of pretty much any layer one
um that they become quite high and
variable and just the combination of
those two things is not great for
developers it's also not great for users
and in many ways the obsession with
scalability in web 3 is because the
infrastructure so far has really Limited
ability to have great UI ux for
onboarding new users and to reach that
mass adoption that we're all looking to
achieve um as soon as possible in this
space so um those are the limitations
that you work with when you deploy in a
single layer one now um what is the
solution to that is to get onto your own
block space um to get onto your own
chain um or roll up side chain Etc so
the reason why it is difficult to get
onto your own chain is what does it take
to build a chain so you need your own
validator set you need um your own token
based security model to keep those
validators incentivized and to keep the
network secure um and you need all the
services on top of that um and you need
to maintain those Services as the
builder of the chain so this is an
enormous coordination problem it is also
very long and expensive for developers
and so if you're just looking to start
deploying some smart contracts onto a
chain somewhere um this is probably not
your first option and just to give you
some perspective it's difficult for
individual developers or even small
teams of developers but I always like to
give the example of dydx a I mean I
think they probably do the highest
volume still as a def5 protocol and yet
it took them 18 months to go off of
ethereum onto Cosmos with all their
engineering resources and knowhow um it
still took them a very very long time so
um that is a no-o for both developers
now what Saga is doing is taking the
Best of Both Worlds we are layer one to
Launch layer ones so when you're
building on Saga you automatically get
onto your own layer one which we call a
chainlet um or your set of chain LS um
so we think of layer ones uh the same
way that most people think about Cloud
servers or instances um now for those of
the developers who are um familiar with
deploying in web 2 um and everyone in
web 3 still deploys in web to in some
capacity then you know that uh you
probably start off with one server
instance and then as the performance
needs of your application grows then you
deploy onto multiple boxes multiple
servers and instances and the system
just elastically scales with your needs
and we felt that we should give the same
experience to web 3 developers uh and so
that is what s is we are a layer one to
launch layer ones um we call it infinite
horizontal scalability you should never
face performance issues with your
application we are Costless on the front
end so we do not charge gas to the end
user um that solves a lot of the uiux
problem that have prevented people from
really entering into the space um we are
interoperability first as well so all of
our chains speak to one another that's
how they're able to scale um but as a
result of solving that interoperability
problem we're also uniquely able to do
fast bridging out to other ecosystems um
so that's Saga as a layer one fantastic
so much fder for conversation um as I
Was preparing this episode though my my
word processor really did not want to
collab uh coordinate with chainlet
um it kept wanting to to respell it as
Chalet so that was that was a fun kind
of like way to embed in me uh writing
chain Lin and I think it's a super a
super catchy kind of like description
for the L1 to launch l1s and I also
really appreciate how Saga simplifies
the message for what the entity aims to
build as a protocol as launching and L1
as simple as launching a smart contract
yeah so before we kind of like delve
into so many um interesting topics and
tidbits that you brought up in that kind
of like overarching uh description of of
what Saga is I did just kind of want to
like take a quick step back and like
give the listeners a little bit about
who you are and and why you're here and
um before we hit record again I was
talking about my previous career as an
urban planner and how I ended up in the
crypto space and you meandered into
being a web 3 founder from a legal
career so maybe you can just kind of
give us a perspective of where you came
in to the kind of like payments realm
through being a corporate attorney and
then maybe some of the lessons you
learned in that area that kind of gave
you maybe I'm assuming your aha moment
for what cryptocurrencies can be and
what these blockchain networks can offer
yeah so um Saga is actually my second
crypto startup uh my first one was more
in the defi space and I was called skew
chain focused on providing short-term
liquidity to small medium-sized
businesses uh so I was co-founder and
coo there for four years um the
co-founder in um that startup was his
name is zi Manan Witcher those of you
who are familiar with the cosmos
ecosystem you know that he's one of the
original builders in this space so we
did our first crypto startup together
and this was very early days in well not
not too to early it's not like we were
there in around like 2008 2009 those are
the original ogs um but we both felt the
same about the potential of crypto um
especially when it came to democratizing
fin Financial Services um and that's why
we got together to to do this startup
and then before that I actually got my
um beginning in startups generally in AI
um so this was back in like 2013 yeah it
was a long time ago now over a decade
ago um but this was when AI was it was
starting to be um a sexier thing to get
into for sure but very early days uh and
that uh is a start of called globality
um which focuses on the international
procurement um of services in an AI
based Manner and um I was part of the
early team there ran Business
Development um found and ran their Asia
operations as well uh we got backed by
Soft Bank within a year and a half um
which got us to unicorn status very very
quickly um but by then um it's fun to go
through a hyperscaling period but I
already found out about crypto and
really fell in love with it and decided
to um stop out and and start my own
thing um I would say the inspiration for
getting into crypto isn't really through
my legal career which I'll talk about in
a second end um but it was really
through my political career um so the
entire time that I have been working a
qu day job um I have been very active in
politics and I was part of the Clinton
campaign in 2016 um I was part of the
Biden campaign in 2020 and um both times
advising on foreign policy and Tech
policy and um when you have the
opportunity to interact with your
counterparts around the world and hear
what it is they hope for um from
technology then you learn um that as
broken as Financial Services um as slow
and cerotic and costly as Financial
Services can be in the US or Western
Europe or places where Financial
infrastructure is a little more Legacy
and built out in some places it just
doesn't exist and um for those countries
and for those developing economies
something like crypto is not a nice to
have this is not a tool for speculation
this is actually a really um vital tool
in which they can leap frog into the
financial future so um that's how I got
interested in crypto to begin with um
it's honestly why I'm still here um even
though uh right now we focus a lot more
on gaming and entertainment which is
kind of getting at the same problem just
in a very different more consumer
oriented way um but that's how I really
got into crypto and before all of that I
I was a corporate lawyer um for about
five years and it's how it began my
career um I uh did the usual so mergers
and acquisition Securities financings
corporate governance and the like uh but
I think after my first all year of
practicing I already knew that I wanted
to stop out and um and find the right
startup to be a part of um it took a
little bit to find that right
opportunity um but once I found it I did
not look back um I uh still use some of
the knowledge that I gained uh from
those early days I never thought I'd use
it again but apparently it's useful in
crypto um uh but um yeah that's that's
been my career Journey so far yeah I I I
really appreciate that perspective that
um blockchain networks are like a nice
to have in the US and kind of like
advanced economies but then when you go
to other parts of the world it's a must
have and it kind of is highlighted in uh
the the the killer use case for
cryptocurrencies which is stable coins
and funny enough the network that the
majority of transactions for stable
coins like tether take place on or
something like Tron and so when you go
on crypto Twitter and you hear all these
kind of di hard decentralized Maxis um
you get one flavor of how this technolog
is used but then when you look at the
rest of the world like turkey or
Argentina or maybe even other countries
on the entire continent of Africa you
see a very different desire and demand
for how these blockchain networks are
used and how the assets on top of them
are used so I think it's really
interesting that you were kind of
purveying this message to um albe it
sounds like uh the Democratic party that
you kind of worked with 2016 and 2020
and basically up until a few years ago
the crypto industry as a whole was
bipartisan and then now you can one
could argue that maybe one
Administration over another has kind of
had an adversarial take towards the
companies that are building gear or
whatnot so maybe um in between 2016 and
2020 and then kind of the Outreach
you've been doing uh for the past four
years how from your perspective has that
narrative kind of changed a little bit
how have the conversations that you've
had with the folks and the connections
that you've made in the Democratic party
maybe changed a little bit has your
perspective of how the education process
for just elected officials in general
has that changed or have they kind of
like created their own ideas for how
they think this technology is used
what's kind of been your perspective
because I flew out to DC in December
with stand with crypto to educate
Colorado legislators on proc crypto
legislation and so I got to see a little
bit behind the scenes of what the
processes are like but you know yourself
having worked on multiple campaigns and
had these relationships for years maybe
you've been able to see uh the
progression um over your time span
collaborating with these folks yeah
absolutely um know it's um it's been
fascinating to watch because generally
speaking um I would say the Democratic
party is quite Tech friendly um so I you
know dating back to
really the Obama Administration there
been a very close relationship between
the tech industry and Democrats I think
with crypto um it was it was a sort of a
couple really interesting developments
that have made it um shift more
conservative and more libertarian
frankly um one is that it does have
libertarian Roots very very deep
libertarian roots and um in some ways
that aligned itself quite well um with
what some Republican lawmakers were were
trying to accomplish um I think the the
culture within crypto is in many ways
better suited to things that are more
let's call it right-wing um and that's
why um it has been taken up more by the
Republican Party um but I also think
that it's um it's it's one of those
things where uh in crypto um the vast
majority of the people who work in the
space are working on projects and when
you work on community- based ecosystems
and projects you build with your
community so you keep them reprised um
of uh developments along the way um
there's no such thing um or there
shouldn't be such a thing as you
announce that you're going to build
something and then go away for about two
to four years and then do a grand reveal
later at every step of the um of the
process you really have to build with
your community and I think that culture
um uh applied itself to our policy um
approach as well and the um it's
wonderful to have the community feel
like they're bought in to our policy
approach having said that I do think
education goes both ways so there is
education that is absolutely vital um
for our lawmakers I mean first of all
those of us who are natively in crypto
and live and breath this 247 it's hard
enough for us to keep up with the latest
developments and narratives and whatnot
um so um briefing our policy makers
especially when they have so many things
on their plate um that is absolutely
critical so thank you Dyan um for being
a part of that um on the the other hand
I do think it's important for our
representatives in DC and in other
regulatory centers to educate the
community as to this is how um policy is
made and this is how you execute on a
political strategy within DC um London
anywhere else in the world and I do
think that um you know Frankly Speaking
I our Representatives have done
wonderful work but I think there is more
of a desire to please the community um
and to become popular within the
Community as opposed to really educate
them as to This Is What It Takes and
really the only reason I say that um is
every single industry that is of
consequence has a bipartisan plan it
doesn't matter what your personal
feelings are it doesn't matter what your
personal political beliefs are you have
to have a plan for both parties just for
practicality sake and I would hate for
crypto to entirely give up the
opportunity of working with you know one
of two major political parties in the US
um because of how we personally feel
about how that party has conducted
itself with uh respect to certain policy
questions um now you can disagree with a
lot of policy positions that this
Administration has taken I certainly
disagree um with a lot of their stances
on crypto on um who they have elevated
as some of the more important voices
within crypto policy in this
Administration but having said that you
have to find a way to work with them um
because they're not going anywhere and
regardless of the outcome of this
upcoming election um there not going
away you have to find a way to beat your
path forward regardless of who's in
power do you feel as a Founder in the US
that um at any point it's just been the
past four years and there's just been
one Administration that's been here so I
don't really want to like cast stones at
at one party or the other or one color
or the other but have you felt that
there's been concern for your ability to
continue residing here and working on a
web3 project absolutely not I have never
gotten attacked for my political beliefs
my um bio on Twitter is very clear about
which two presidential campaigns I have
worked for but um aside from you know a
few extreme voices here and there which
are just part and parcel of social media
I have never gotten attacked for my
political beliefs I think what people
understand is that Saga stands for
something very specific in this space
that we have an amazing group of
developers that we have an amazing
ecosystem that we are delivering gaming
and entertainment to the space and we
are broadening the user base for crypto
such that we accelerate our path to
reaching Mass adoption I think that's
what people focus on and um I give the
crypto Community great credit for having
focused on that um I think that um there
have been some people um who have asked
me over and over again do you feel
uncomfortable in this space once again I
think when you ascend to a leadership
position it does not matter what your
personal feelings are it doesn't matter
what your personal beliefs are you are
here to do a job job and I work for our
community I work for our ecosystem and
our stakeholders and whatever it takes
for Saga to execute on its Mission I am
there to execute on it totally so
zooming out of the US because I don't
want to be a us focused myopic podcast
um you were recently in ECC and Brussels
um I love ethereum conferences I go to
eth Denver every year just to get a
finger on the pulse for what's going on
it's also my local conference so kind of
what was like the vibe um at ECC if if
you go on Twitter you can find the herds
you know propagating one narrative or
another um and it's easy to find what
folks were were trying to on or not
when it came to the conference but from
your perspective um what were folks
interested in what was kind of like the
Hun topics um How are Europeans feeling
about the blockchain space in general
just really curious to hear your
insights honestly um you know this
industry is incredibly Dynamic and um
this week that we're recording is the
week of July 15th um I would say so far
it's only Tuesday um but the feeling is
quite positive um within
crypto uh the week of ethcc I honestly
have never seen this level of
complaining at a major crypto conference
uh even earlier in the year when we had
token 2049 in Dubai and the desert
actually flooded I did not hear this
level of complaining but I um I think
people were sort of sick and tired of
the state of the market um I think they
did not have the best time in the
location for whatever reason um weather
wasn't great people were just full of
complaints and um this week it's very
different so there is one very important
takeaway from ECC um which is that we
need new users in here we need new users
because the reason why this bull market
um has disappointed expectations so far
is that we are by and large
recirculating money amongst ourselves um
and so we are not
uh attracting that group of whether it's
users or investors who really believe in
the space um who actually use the
products and um are helping crypto to
move to that next stage of maturation
and development and um I think in a way
um there a little bit of an unfair
accusation um but uh the crypto Crow at
ECC felt a little bit like we had
completely over indexed on
infrastructure that may be true um now
obviously what Saga stands for is that
you need great infrastructure in order
to have great applications um but I also
think that the culture of the space
really needs to orient itself towards
application developers and that means
giving them a proper go to market if you
are a platform um I.E a chain and you
have the capacity to really support your
applications you should do that support
those developers I think communities
should rally around developers as well
um certainly VC and any sort of capital
Source um should take a renewed interest
in applications uh if you want that
front line um with users to be strong
then you have to invest in it and um I
am glad actually that at ECC which is
historically a very infrastructure
focused conference that people recognize
that and I I hope that they carry that
spirit with them um even as the market
starts to improve yeah and when talking
about applications I mean it's kind of
uh perfect that Saga built on the cosmos
SDK because that does enable these quote
unquote app to be able to spun be spun
up and yarn out but um like you
mentioned where do these new users come
from and from my perspective um for a
long time uh it was always build the
tooling for the web to traditional
developers and meet them where they're
at so it becomes easier for them to
build in the web through space but then
you know you're you also have to onboard
new consumers like how can I get my mom
using blockchain enable applications and
tokens without her having to learn what
a seed fras is or having to download a
new wallet or load it with gas so I
think Saga is kind of addressing these
two issues from both ends uh going after
the users when you talk about things
like gaming and entertainment but also
making it easier for the developers when
you talk about being able to launch an
L1 as easily as you can with a smart
contract PL as easily as you can a smart
contract um but I'm also Al wondering do
from your perspective do you think we
get these new users who are already
internet natives or um and maybe this is
also pulling on your experience that you
have at Stanford do we kind of go after
like tomorrow's Builders and tomorrow's
consumers today while they're still at
these kind of um the these points in
their lives when their minds are
expanding and they're learning new
Concepts and they're understanding what
their role is going to be in the future
um and how they're going to interact and
interplay in this Grand economy that
we're all a part of so I I guess to to
boil all that down is where do these New
Year's users come from is it from the
people who are already out there today
they have jobs they have careers they're
they're using applications or maybe
they're developers and they're already
building or do we kind of go after like
tomorrow's leaders today I would say
that you know this is the case with any
technology adoption cycle is that you
have your early adopters um and then you
go through a trough of discontent um
where the technology is not quite living
up to its promises um but if the
industry is serious about making itself
then you address those problems and then
you work hard enough to find that
product Market fit um and then hopefully
some of your applications for the most
part um reach Mass adoption and that
draws the rest of the industry with it
um so technology adoption Cycles have
been pretty consistent um no matter the
actual Med medium of technology or the
type of Technology you're building so I
think crypto it's the same story you
have your early adopters I think you
know the current um crop of crypto users
are the early adopters now how do we
reach Mass adoption I think that's is
the question on everybody's Minds so put
it this way um I think that many
applications have figured out how to
abstract away things like seed phrases
for instance so we have tools around
account abstraction um we have mult
multiple wallets now that really allow
for that web two experience um let's say
where you do um single sign on across
multiple platforms you log in using your
email your socials Etc um so there are
things on the margin that we have fixed
with respect to uiux now the the issue
is this is um when we think about the
technology products that have become a
part of our everyday lives whether it's
this um you know computer through which
you and I are talking um smartphones um
even arvr coming up Etc um it's not so
much a specific technology feature that
we have been waiting for this entire
time it is what value that technology
provides to you and what we have found
with any great technology over the last
what 30 40 years is it really solves one
of two problems hopefully both vanity
and convenience so you want your life to
be made easier and you want to be loved
and respected that's what technology
solves and it is able to do it in a
really scalable way so the problem with
crypto is I'm not saying that crypto has
not found product Market fit I think
crypto itself cryptocurrency and coins
and tokens that has found product Market
fit in a very big way um stable coins as
you mentioned um they're their sort of
you know own Niche very practical use
case especially for developing market
economies around the world um but for um
anyone within the crypto industry who's
looking to transact in a common medium
they're incredibly useful but I think
for a lot of other use cases including
gaming and entertainment we are still
finding that hockey stick um for our
particular applications but one of the
things that s has always stood for is
that people are people users are users
at the end of the day you have to
scratch a very human itch that all users
have and so that's what we focus on why
is it that we've decided to go into
gaming and entertainment because um in
many ways that uh vanity question that I
I talked about earlier the desire to
feel loved and respected and part of
something bigger than yourself that's
what gaming and entertainment is all
about and um there are other platforms
that strictly go after payments for
instance they trying to make people's
lives easier I think the issue there is
that we're finding after so many years
um that what blockchain offers um again
in some jurisdictions is incredibly
valuable with respect to payments in
some jurisdictions it is either nice to
have or it's frankly solving um
something where there was no problem to
begin with and so I I think as um as
people uh who really are responsible for
stewarding crypto's future because we
are the early adapters and we are the
builders in this space this particular
cycle I think we have to be very real
with ourselves about what the actual use
cases are what is going to be viable
going forward and um there is definitely
not a onetoone correspondence between
the narratives that are popular at any
given time and what's actually going to
hit with consumers and one of the things
that Saga really tries to do is provide
leadership in the space and to give
other projects an example of what it
looks like to have a very clear product
Vision to be consistent with it to stick
with it and um the users either reward
you or they don't and in our particular
case um you know thank God we do have a
great gamer Community uh and we are
seeing our message really resonate uh
with wider gaming and entertainment uh
which is awesome but um I I do think
that you know crypto often because we're
so tribal we try to break other people
down into tribes you know are you um a
normie are you a boomer are you jenzy
Millennial are you part of the future
maybe you're just a human being
so maybe um I've been I've been around
crypto since 2017 full-time since 2018
I've I've like seen hype Cycles come and
go and maybe I'm a little cynical or
callous sometimes I really thought in
2021 we were going to see gaming just
pop off and we saw on Reddit kind of
like the negative response people
thought that blockchains were
environmentally hazardous and that proof
of work uh consensus mechanisms consumed
way too much electricity and energy and
it even got connected with fossil fuels
and the negative externalities that are
associated with that and so I kind of
maybe full-heartedly developed this
thesis that it was going to have to be a
AAA gaming studio that really made like
a standout game that integrated
blockchain and and really brought kind
of like crypto and blockchain to the
gamer sphere but Saga is actively going
after the gaming vertical like you
mentioned gaming and entertainment so I
kind of want to double down on gaming
right now if you just scroll through
saga's X account you'll just see game
after game after game Partnerships
examples like Angelic zeroverse Luca and
just so many more um so like are we add
this inflection point where maybe it
doesn't need to be a AAA gaming studio
that brings that one killer game to the
to the Forefront is it you know we're in
a new cycle Now is it going to be
another opportunity for these web 3
native games to kind of show what
they're made of um from your perspective
like how does gaming and and crypto and
web 3 how do they really kind of like
make it to the mainstream of this
particular vertical which is gaming it's
a great question question um I think
2021 um was uh it was a really
interesting lesson for all of us because
it was a very specific kind of gaming um
that people built um and invested into
and that's play to earn um so the idea
being you play this game you earn either
tokens or nfts most likely and um
therefore playing a game meant that you
earned income and um this was incredibly
popular uh especially in in certain
parts of the world um where they are
looking um to generate this kind of
personal income and um what we learned
from that however is uh gaming is one of
those forever forms of entertainment it
doesn't really belong to any individual
or any group of people um it is a
universal medium for for happiness
really and um therefore uh people can
take it in all sorts of directions and I
think for people who built play to earn
who introduced tokens and nfds into
games they genuinely felt that this
would be a really fun experience um now
uh the reason why Gamers reacted against
it is the worst thing you can do um with
a gamer is um
overpromise and so what would happen
with a lot of these games because it
takes a long time to build a game and
here I have a great deal of compassion
for the game developers because uh you
need at least a few months to get to
closed Alpha let's say which is the very
first version of the game or Early
Access
um and uh you need probably another year
or two to really polish it and make it a
complete game and um I I mean hearing
that you're probably already thinking
well that's at least one cycle in crypto
and so you may start building the game
um during a bull market when you can
actually get funding for it and pull a
team together people are interested in
your project by the time you finish the
game you're in a bare market and so it
doesn't work with crypto Cycles uh and
so I think with um the 2021 crop what
happened was a lot of these game
developers felt incredible pressure to
just go ahead release that token or nfts
start to generate income traction
momentum but the game was not anywhere
near done and what happened then was
then Gamers took a look at this and said
um that's not the story that I have in
my head the story that I have is that
you tried to take my money um and you
never intended to build a game that is
the main accusation that the wider
gaming industry has against this space
um and one of the things that Saga has
really tried to do and you know I fully
admit that we have benefited from being
where we are um from having launched at
the time that we did and therefore we
were able to observe a lot of this um at
first and to learn a lot of those
lessons before we built out our own go
to market plan in our own platform um
but it's really important for game
developers to build with the community
like I said um involve your community in
your decision-making make them feel a
part of the creative process um get them
to really identify those common values
used in that ethos that holds a
community together this is all critical
for being a web three game and it's
something that Saga is really
spearheaded um with respect to any game
that builds on here but particularly
with respect to any game that builds as
part of saga Origins which is our own
publishing house um so we have a very
different approach um let's say to
shipping web 3 games to identifying the
creators um that are going to build
these games and the kind of game that um
you ultimately bring to Market it is
still the case um that steam um epic has
a little bit more of a liberal policy
but a lot of platforms will not
entertain games that have nft token
components and so if you are going to
have in-game assets if you're going to
do onchain transactions then you have to
do it in a way such that it does not
clearly involve a token or nfts um which
is entirely doable and there's still a
great deal of value that the blockchain
provides uh in terms of saving game
States um of allowing trading um of
these in-game assets in a second Market
again not involving nfts but still
tradable um in allowing players to
create ugc and to have their own servers
and in-game economies um there's a great
deal that you can do on chain but it's
just a very different flavor of it um I
am very glad that at this point people
are moving away from waiting for
Activision or epic Riot Rockstar any of
these AAA Studios um uh building that
AAA game on chain and you know
quotequote saving this space that's like
saying JP Morgan's going to save D5 it's
not going to happen um if anything they
are going to be a very very slow
follower um and they're going to be
forced into it change has always
happened from the Grassroots um you know
Saga has always stood for the fact that
even though we are you know very serious
and professional about what we do we are
very clearly anti-establishment in many
ways big studios have failed Gamers they
have failed game developers we are
solidly for the indie game developer um
for their passion communities who really
are sticking with just a very um you
know captivating creative concept and
supporting the people uh who are
building out that concept that's really
what we do at the end of the day and
that's why our tagline is we are for the
crazies who Dare To Dream their craziest
dreams I love it you kind of answered my
follow on question which was going to be
what are the like what's the evolution
looked like for web 3 gaming because in
2021 it was very much pte you can ear
tokens maybe you can own an nft of like
a skin for your gun or even like
famously vitalic was World of Warcraft
when he lost his epic sword he wanted to
own that physical or that in-game asset
um as an nft but as you were just kind
of describing your outlook on web 3
gaming you also mentioned other ways in
which blockchain can be integrated into
games things like uh saving the state of
of a game and like what are some other
kind of interesting Realms that maybe
we're starting to see
New Uses um and applications for
blockchain as an infrastructure for web
through games Beyond just getting a
token for an in-game currency or holding
an in-game item in your wallet yeah so I
would say that um you know saving game
State on chain um there's there's a
reason why it is becoming more popular
as a use case and that is um you want to
be able to trigger certain actions or
transactions in the game just based on
player action and um you can absolutely
do that off the centralized database but
if you want to do it across multiple
platforms you have to have a chain this
is where blockchain excels it is in
crossplatform
transactions and um that's why game
state has come to be quite important
there are some game developers out there
particularly those who are working in
the first-person shooter category um
that care about anti-cheating and saving
games data on chain will certainly help
with that as well um the more that we
welcome on AI agents into the space um
either they are playing games on your
behalf um or they are acting as NPCs um
and really uh serving as those like you
know nonhuman human characters in the
game um being able to log their actions
on chain is incredibly important and so
we're we're finding that gain State uh
is a really popular use case on Saga
particularly because we are gasless um
and so we are not charging for every
single time you're logging um those
transactions on chain um but the other
thing uh that we're seeing more and more
of and I really credit Indie Developers
for being so creative about this is the
reason why gaming and you know for all
of our angst uh in crypto about the
state of the market I would say that
gaming in many ways is at a very
difficult last you know 18 months and um
that is uh due to just a glut of content
um from the pandemic so way over
investment in gaming but also in many
ways the distribution model in gaming is
broken um so AAA titles uh spend
anywhere from maybe 50 to God um top
games can be like 200 300 million for
development and then you double that um
for marketing so very few Studios can
afford um that sort of game development
to start with and uh Indie titles on the
other hand I mean the the simplest ones
can be made for anywhere from like10 to
$50,000 um all the way up to maybe a
million or two million so development
budgets are far smaller marketing
budgets are practically non-existent um
because there's don't have the bandwidth
for that now um the nature of platforms
is that you're going to try to identify
the hits and the winners and um
therefore user acquisition has become a
game that is just too expensive for most
Gamers to be able to afford for most
game developers um to be able to afford
and what we've always felt is that
somehow these games are going to have to
find a way to survive um to get their
game out there to find a sustainable
distribution model and that is where I
think crypto can really really shine um
so we're seeing that um these games of
their own accord are um are acting uh as
cross-chain um distribution platforms
for one another and there is a real
Spirit of sharing IP as well uh and so
these games are allowing for
downloadable content or in-game assets
from other games in their games um and
so it's sort of like a Multiverse ugc um
type collab ation and um that's where I
think you'll get to both that creative
and social aspect of using the chain in
order to um once again transact in a
cross-platform manner um that's what
we're really excited by and honestly uh
for those of you who follow gaming or
are Gamers or fans um you know that
Roblox and fortnite this is what they do
they allow their Gamers to come up with
custom content it is enormously
profitable but um because uh they are
owned um by their respective companies
there is still that centralized control
of this kind of content um what
blockchain does is it makes it all
decentralized and that is where you get
to Mega scale so Saga is going to be um
I guess releasing or hosting an upcoming
initiative in the summer is this going
to be sort of an incentive for these web
3 games to kind of create like cross
metaverse integration whereby I can play
like one game um and then have my
character interact in another game is
that going to be sort of an incentive uh
for the builders and maybe even rewarded
or maybe if I'm completely off B you
could just share a little bit more about
what the uh aim and vision and desire
for Indie summer is so the reason why we
call it in D summer is um it's so
arguably pretty much every single game
within web 3 is Indie in the sense that
it is a small independent team and um
they are not being backed by any major
publisher and that's because all the
gaming Publishers have refused to take
on web three games um which is why we
decided to become a publisher because
games need Publishers and as a chain we
felt that we were in the position to be
able to offer that kind of service to
our games now um the reason why we call
it Indie summer is um to distinguish the
fact that there are a lot of web 2 Indie
titles that are coming onto Saga and um
again these developers um they are the
most passionate creative original
developers uh in wider gaming they have
incredibly passionate fan bases and in
many ways they have been the strongest
detractors of anything crypto and web
three but the reason why they're coming
onto Saga is that they recognize the
creative freedom that they can have here
and the ability to get away from these
really oppressive distribution models
that have left Indie developers behind
um and Gamers more and more are
disappointed with the decisions of big
studios and they recognize that s is a
great platform to um really relieve them
of a lot of the Grievances that they
felt over the last say 2 three years
about developments in wider gaming so I
think what we really wanted to celebrate
um was that these uh indie game
developers again from web 2 are coming
on to Saga and um you asked about
incentives um so this is where Saga can
be quite unique we unique in many ways
um but this is something that we've
become known for we have never given a
grant to a project any project building
Saga with the exception of publishing
grants that we give to you know big
expansive games where we know that
they're going to need help for
development and for go to market costs
but otherwise we have not given a grant
um it is not um going to be effective
for fi for finding product Market fit if
you have to pay your customer um if
anyone gets paid uh to to do something
of course is a very very strong
incentive now um Saga is also luckily
architected in such a way that people
necessarily require grants to build on
here again we are guas lless so it's not
like we have to pay you upfront for all
the gas fees that you're going to spend
on here because your application is now
on chain um so when it comes to working
with developers what we tell them is
okay if you are you know core strategic
interest to Saga um and uh what you are
building is not necessarily an
application on here um but let's say
just a part of the core protocol that
makes um the entire Community better off
then we could consider a grant again we
would consider a publishing Grant as
well but otherwise what Saga gives to
you is probably way more valuable than
cash which is users um so our team
really gets to work uh for giving these
applications a true go to market and
that is honestly where we put the the
bulk of our resources is in making sure
that you get user traction because I can
tell you that we can give you a $50,000
Grant now and you go ahead and build the
game and you get you know a hundred
monthly active users um this game is not
going anywhere or um we can give you the
platform and we can actually do a proper
marketing job for you and do community
building and sponsored user acquisition
create game awareness and really help
you build that metag game and by the end
of it you may not have gotten $50,000
from us upfront but you will have gotten
50,000 Maus and that opens doors for you
every platform out there will want to
work with you they see you as a
promising title obviously you have the
um the uh um organic traffic among your
Gamers and that is going to pay
dividends down the road so it's just
it's a very different way of thinking
about how do we help our applications
actually get traction um was a very long
answer to h a very simple question about
what is indie summer exactly is web 2
Indies coming to Saga I it's it's really
fascinating because um I spoke with
gitcoin a few months back and we spoke
about the value that grants can bring to
like web 3 projects and how specifically
a grant can sometimes Empower uh like a
defi Builder or a on web 3 gaming game
in a way that is more powerful than
maybe VC or even alone or anything of
that nature but it's fascinating to hear
how Saga has found that grants are not
kind of uh maybe the killer use case
when empowering a web three blockchain
game rather providing the infrastructure
and the users and so that to me was is
just a super Keen insight about how
we're starting to see differentiation
between blockchain types of projects and
how they differ between verticals and
another key thing you keep mentioning is
that Saga is gasless when I took a peek
at launching a chain lit the only kind
of upfront investment I saw was that the
entity has to stake Saga or P Saga in
order to launch the chain lit so maybe
could you just really briefly describe
what like the architecture is behind
that and what The Upfront costs are to
launch my own chain L and to maintain it
um is this going to be like a monthly
recurring cost or is the chain like
going to be live as long as my stake is
um hosting it basically yeah um it's a
great question so right now um we do not
yet have this feature but we will have
it in the future um where you can go
ahead and stake your Saga and then pay
for your chainlet through staking
rewards that's absolutely possible um
but on a fundamental basis the way that
you keep your chainlet alive is you pay
for it in Saga tokens and the tokens go
to our validators because they're
providing security for those chain lets
and it is going to feel very much like a
recurring payment um so again in many
ways we're trying to replicate the cloud
experience um we think block space is a
commodity and so we accordingly try to
price um such that it is commodity
levels um the way that we do that is by
reverse auction among our validators so
it's not Saga setting the price it's our
validators but they are heavily
incentivized to price as close to their
true cost as possible and it's clocking
in at about $500 um per chainlet per
month and with no other fees in the
system it should be the most affordable
way in which to develop and then um I
want to talk about entertainment before
we run up to the top of the hour uh but
just to give the listeners a sense of
who these games are that are building in
The Saga sphere are we talking about
like the the tapping type games that
like hamster coin which is really
popular like a month ago but no one
talks about now or are we talking about
kind of like immersive 3D World
um maybe like RPGs or things of this
nature what's like the scope and scale
and I guess um like energy that's put
into these games is it is it is it more
than just like tap and get you know fake
Internet coins yeah so anybody can build
on Saga I mean it is permissionless and
um we encourage people to try things out
um so if you do want to to do a point
click game um if you want to do you know
simple meme game in which people are
just getting random nfts or tokens
that's totally fine um it's completely
okay to experiment on Saga and honestly
um in many ways the system was
architected such that you can experiment
with applications on here so you don't
have to you know think so intently about
what the business model is for your
particular application before you launch
it on Saga um so more than welcome um to
to have those kinds of games and they do
provide legit entertainment for people
um usually for a shorter period of time
but hey it's all welcome here uh in
terms of the kinds of games that we
actually back at Saga Origins however so
these are the games that we will
actively publish it is much more of that
immersive um open World Experience so
the criteria that we set forth for any
game that pitches us for Saga Origins is
provocative expansive uncompromising so
we do want the big titles the big worlds
um it does tend to be intense content um
so pretty much every game that we
publish is solidly mated
and um we decided to to go after this um
particular category for several reasons
but one is it it is crypto it is web
three we should be pushing the envelope
and when we stood up Saga Origins what
we noticed was that most Gams in the
space are very much e for everyone which
is great that's incredibly inclusive and
welcoming but really what crypto stands
for is again pushing the envelope being
anti-establishment and putting content
out there that big studios are frankly
too afraid to touch so um that is the
nature of the titles that we put out the
reason why we wanted something expansive
uncompromising is you don't really get
to know the power of the blockchain
until you involve a network until you
involve a community or something that is
again cross-platform and in order to
really support um that kind of thesis
you need a game that is as big to match
um so yeah those are the the kinds of
games that we back at Saga I would say
those are sort of the signature saga
games um but having said that anyone is
welcome to build on here yeah there's
also kind of like a a tie back to what
you were saying with earlier in the
conversation with like blockchain
enabled networks how there's that very
libertarian view and if you are
producing mated content you can become
very cancelable and to be uncan on an
immutable network is something that
jives very well with with that rating of
game um so super interesting to hear
that that's what Saga Origins is kind of
doubling down on and at the end of the
day like everyone in crypto right now
the crypto natives are mostly
so this is content that's right up their
alley um kind of Shifting Gears a little
bit because saga's not just focusing on
gaming but entertainment is also a
vertical and maybe if you look at
sentiment on CT crypto Twitter right now
you see that people might say that like
music nfts failed and the royalties
never quite hit in the way that they
were trying to when it came to like
competing with Spotify so I guess from
your perspective what are the ways in
which our our outlook on what nfts could
have been for the music industry where
did we kind of like have rosec colored
glasses on where did we expect too much
and didn't necessarily wait for uh the
length of the adoption cycle for this uh
technology to empower artists um in
terms of music nfts and then what's like
what am I missing um when we talk about
entertainment being brought on chain
because certainly it has to be more than
music no it's definitely not just music
so entertainment is an incredibly broad
category I mean it it encompasses
everything from you know film TV um to
music um honestly like books and nfts
any sort of art and culture uh that is
all a part of entertainment now I would
say for the early projects that tackled
music it was incredibly Brave music I
think even those of us who have been in
entertainment for a long time we
acknowledge is the toughest industry to
crack because there are so so many
people in the middle who take their cut
and um even if you solve for you know a
handful of those middlemen there are
like 10 others that you have to
potentially deal with and it's an
incredibly hard business problem to
solve so it's not just a technology
problem um I do think that um you know
once you have uh a distribution a cross
again cross-chain distribution platform
that starts to solve some of the
distribution problems of Music um that's
when you'll start to see more traction
but I don't think the technology was
there back in 2020 2021 for this and
again layer on top of that that music is
just an incredibly tough industry um in
terms of you know what does um crypto
and blockchain mean for entertainment
RIT large I keep going back to the
concept of ugc user generated content
because the trend in entertainment has
been to go smaller um so even with film
TV uh what we're seeing is um there are
maybe two to three big Studio hits every
year in terms of movies um these are the
movies who actually do well at the box
office people go to the theater to see
them and um they really justify um the
continued existence of these big budget
um movie studios and uh that kind of
investment um but what we're seeing is
also the rise of you streaming and the
popularity of TV delivered through that
Medium which is already sort of you know
starting to break down just the the
scale of entertainment that we want to
consume as viewers um and um you you
break that down even further and um what
a lot of people are starting to say is
that the movie star is dead um I don't
know if I completely agree with that
there are still some actors and
actresses who can definitely pull an
audience um but having said that it is
the rise of the Creator economy and you
no longer have to be discovered by a big
Studio or by a talent agency you no
longer have to have representation in
order to do really well in entertainment
and I think that crypto only accelerates
that Trend um so the more that we
Empower people to take content of their
own um or derived from other
intellectual property and to monetize it
on chain then you'll start to see
acceleration of um crypto adoption in
entertainment I would say that
entertainment generally moves a lot more
slowly than gaming gaming usually leads
the way um they're the first ones to
adopt any sort of new technology um to
experiment with new trends um I think
it's just because in gaming you have a
much much stronger Grassroots presence
in the indust indry entertainment is
still very much controlled by some of
the Legacy companies um who do a
fabulous job at at their products um but
in terms of change in the industry it is
relatively slow um so in in that sense
we definitely want to give people a home
for it on Saga and The Saga brand in
general just celebrates creativity and
the ability to put whatever content you
want on here but having said that gaming
definitely will hit first and that's why
we've put the bulk of our investment
there that is a great question no
um so I I would say that um with Saga
Origins um the gaming Studios that we
back I mean first of all they're all
relatively small um they are small
independent shops um with respect to
entertainment I don't know if it's
necessarily small Studios that we'd be
backing it would be more individuals um
and um in terms of you know how we would
give them a platform that actually
remains to to be seen um because I think
a lot of these creators are able to use
maybe existing Web Two platforms um to
have a presence and to gain a viewership
um but it's really the logging of the
intellectual property on chain or the
monetization of that IP on chain um
where they really look to us um so the
distribution platforms that currently
exist in web 2 uh in other words can
work quite well um for anyone who's
purely interested in the entertainment
angle um but what we're seeing again
with gaming is that it's just
progressing a lot more quickly in this
space and so is there truly a web3
native distribution platform for gaming
yes that's not yet true for
entertainment um when that becomes true
I think that's when we'll feel much more
comfortable either representing um or
not necessarily publishing but just
backing and distributing um and pure
entertainment assets um but that that
will be for maybe not even this cycle
maybe next cycle perfect um and to kind
of maybe take an Abrupt turn and uh
touch on a topic that the salty folks on
CT have been um complaining about as the
the the complaint dour uh recently it's
been airdrops people are just really mad
about airdrops they don't like how much
they got regardless of network activity
um Saga is currently on vault 3 which is
its third airdrop distribution so I
guess maybe I just want to hear from a
Founder's perspective and from a
Project's perspective how do you guys
view the current state of negative or
positive sentiment and Outlook towards
aird drops and does that kind of shape
the way in which you want to distribute
your tokens to your community members
yeah so um this is actually the it's the
fourth airdrop we've done um VA three
you're absolutely right um but the first
airdrop uh we we did was for Genesis
that was a um mainnet airdrop and um
then we started to get into the vaults
um because those are a part of our power
level over 9,000 campaign and uh it's a
campaign where over a 100 tokens and
nfts are being air dropped to our
stakers so an airdrop is really um meant
to be a distribution Channel once again
um just getting down to you know basic
business why do an airdrop it is for
awareness uh it is to get your assets
into the hands of holders um so that uh
hopefully they're able to engage with
your platform your application or you
know whatever the airdrop is coming from
and I think that um there is no such
thing as an airdrop that is going to
make absolutely everybody happy um
that's like saying you're going to make
everybody on social media happy it's
just never going to happen um so I think
from the perspective of a project you
just have to be very cleare eyed about
what your objectives are and the thing
is an airdrop makes it sound like I'm
going to drop this and then you know you
take it or leave it um if you don't like
it obviously feel free to complain about
it um you social media is a free place
where you can just you know talk and
talk um or um you can you know celebrate
this drop and become a really loyal
member of the community Etc but the
project is sort of out of it at that
point and I think what Saga has done
because this airdrop campaign has really
been continuous for us is we've really
tried to use it as a tool to help truly
build that community so you know we do
our Genesis drop and that determines our
initial set of holders and stakers now
um we had a pretty ridiculous percentage
of people stake immediately um because
they saw the promise of the project um
or they knew that additional air drops
were coming I think we announced power
level over 9,000 maybe 3 days after meet
launch um so people got the idea that uh
there were certain Perks to Being a part
of this community but that's the way in
which you really build that engagement
really build that loyalty among your
holders and um what we're doing with all
these faults and the reason why we
decided to uh become the um the platform
through which our partners did these
drops uh is we want our community to
really get into the habit of supporting
the developers who are building on here
and um it's it's a really great credit
to our community members that they have
started to pay very close attention to
the games that are dropping um if they
are getting battle passes or nfts from
these games for instance and they will
actually go into the game to engage and
play which was the objective to begin
with uh and so I I think in many ways
again it's a two-way dialogue um it's
not just you know drop here you go and
good luck um it's okay you know here is
um one set of assets um that you can
engage with they come from these
protocols please get to know the
projects and the founders um really
support each other because we're all
building here at Saga and then here's
another crop where you can do the same
thing again and again and again and
again every single time I think the
community feeling gets stronger and
stronger so airdrops are a very
important tool in this space um in other
words but I think that rather than ask
okay how do I I fire off the perfect
nuclear bomb how do I make sure that you
know the one big air drop that my
protocol does goes off perfectly that
everyone loves it it's the wrong problem
to solve for it's how do I use airdrops
generally to build a community and if
you think of it as a ones shot thing
it's not going to go well so um you have
to make a really continuous process yeah
very cool to hear the um belt process
around the airdrops and how it just kind
of continues to tie into the vision that
Saga does bring these Maus to games that
are building on top of uh the ecosystem
basically so if anybody listening to
this episode got super psyched whether
they're in the entertainment or gaming
business or they're a token holder or
they're just a builder in general what's
the best way that they can contact you
Andor Saga yeah so um best way to get
news from Saga is to follow us on
Twitter um so it's Saga XYZ with a
double underscore at the end um we are
also incredibly active across our
Discord and our telegram channels um all
of these handles are available on our
website saga. XYZ and um those are
actually the best ways to get in contact
with us if you are a builder and you're
looking to potentially build on Saga and
to get support from us then there is a
form for um joining our mainnet on our
website and if you fill that out then
the team will definitely see it and
respond to it I personally respond to
those on a daily basis um so really look
forward to hearing from um from everyone
Rebecca fantastic thank you so much for
uh chatting to us about Saga and the
amazing verticals that you guys are
working in and your perspective on web 3
gaming um this was a really enlightening
conversation I appreciate it no thank
you Dylan really fun conversation really
thoughtful questions and it's just great
to spend time with you absolutely cheers
thanks so much well what did you think
of that conversation hearing Rebecca
break down the two reasons why
applications and Tech uses are
attractive to users because of vanity
and convenience with pretty eye
openening and simple to internalize as
to why we all use these apps every day
it was also really great to hear Rebecca
share logic behind saga's audacious goal
to go after mature rated games to dare
to be different and attract users who
will want to consume sticky and new and
interesting games that are produced by
The Saga Origins gaming studio and
finally it was really refreshing to hear
Rebecca call out the salty nature of
crypto Twitter and how we build our way
out of this perspective and perception
by onboarding the next wave of non-
Crypt native users after this
conversation I really did see how Saga
aims to empower web 3 Builders to dream
their craziest dreams to keep up to date
with the smarte economy podcast head
over to
www.smart economy podcast.com and if you
like the guests that we've had on the
show please consider showing your
support by liking commenting and
reviewing this episode on your favorite
podcasting platform any action that you
do to interact with this episode on any
of those platforms really does help us
get more ears and eyes on the podcast
and of course if you're a neot toen
holder please consider voting for Neo
news today as your Council
representative we've proudly been
serving the Neo ecosystem since 2017 and
we'll continue to do so by putting
portions of our Council rewards directly
back into ecosystem growth initiatives
with all that said thank you so much for
taking the time to listen to the smart
economy podcast and we look forward to
catching you next time